README.md, before:


<h1 align="center">👋 Hi, I'm Sasha — AI & Backend Engineering</h1>
<p align="center">
  <b>Math & CS Student • Aspiring AI Engineer • Backend Developer • Creative Tech Explorer</b>
</p>

---

## 🧠 About Me  
I'm a Mathematics & Computer Science student focusing on **AI engineering**, especially:

- Machine learning & deep learning  
- NLP & transformer models  
- Vector databases & semantic search  
- Scalable backend systems  
- AI for audio (DSP, embeddings, generative models)

I love building systems that combine **strong backend architecture** with **machine learning intelligence**.  
My background as a **music producer & former sound engineer at Fabric (London)** inspires my interest in **AI x audio**.

---

## 🚀 AI & Engineering Focus  
- 🤖 Machine Learning (PyTorch, TensorFlow)  
- 🧠 Transformers, NLP & embeddings  
- 🔍 High-dimensional search & similarity  
- 📦 FastAPI ML microservices  
- 🧮 Linear algebra, optimization, probability  
- 🔊 Audio ML: classification, embeddings, DSP  
- 🛠️ MLOps (learning: Docker, pipelines, deployment)  

---

## 🧰 Tech Stack  

### **Languages**
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?logo=python&logoColor=white)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-F7DF1E?logo=javascript&logoColor=black)
![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-007396?logo=java&logoColor=white)

### **AI / ML**
![PyTorch](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C?logo=pytorch&logoColor=white)
![TensorFlow](https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white)
![NumPy](https://img.shields.io/badge/NumPy-013243?logo=numpy&logoColor=white)
![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?logo=pandas&logoColor=white)

### **Backend**
![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?logo=fastapi&logoColor=white)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?logo=node.js&logoColor=white)
![Express](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express-000000?logo=express&logoColor=white)

### **Databases & Tools**
![PostgreSQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-336791?logo=postgresql&logoColor=white)
![Supabase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Supabase-3ECF8E?logo=supabase&logoColor=white)
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-47A248?logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=white)

---
## 🚀 Featured Projects

### 🔍 **[Vector Search Engine (RAG)](https://github.com/sashsutton/vector-search-engine)**
> **Python • FastAPI • NumPy • Docker**
>
> A high-performance semantic search engine built from scratch. It uses **Cosine Similarity** and **Linear Algebra** to manage 384-dimensional vector embeddings in real-time, enabling context-aware search instead of just keyword matching.
>
> [![View Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/View_Code-GitHub-black?style=flat-square&logo=github)](https://github.com/sashsutton/vector-search-engine)
> [![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/🚀_Live_Demo-Online-success?style=flat-square)](https://vector-search-engine-frontend.vercel.app/)

<br>

### 🏃 **[Neural Vision 3D](https://github.com/sashsutton/neural-network-numbers?tab=readme-ov-file)**
> **Python • Numpy • React**
>
> **
>
> [![View Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/View_Code-GitHub-black?style=flat-square&logo=github)](https://github.com/sashsutton/neural-network-numbers?tab=readme-ov-file)

---

# 📊 GitHub Contributions

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-activity-graph.vercel.app/graph?username=sashsutton&theme=tokyo-night" />
</p>

---

# 🧠 AI Engineer Roadmap (My Path)

### **📌 Foundations (DONE / IN PROGRESS)**
- Python mastery  
- Linear algebra, probability, optimization  
- Data structures & algorithms  
- NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib  

### **📌 Machine Learning (NOW)**
- Regression, classification, clustering  
- Pipelines & preprocessing  
- Model evaluation & tuning  

### **📌 Deep Learning**
- MLPs  
- CNNs & RNNs  
- Training techniques & regularization  

### **📌 NLP & Embeddings**
- Tokenizers & vectorization  
- Transformer models  
- Semantic search & LLM basics  

### **📌 AI for Audio (SPECIALISATION)**
- Spectrograms  
- Audio embeddings  
- Genre/BPM classification  
- ML-driven mixing/mastering tools  

### **📌 Backend + MLOps**
- FastAPI model deployment  
- Dockerized pipelines  
- Model versioning  
- Monitoring & logging  
- Cloud deployment (learning)  

---
<h3 align="center">🎧 Recently Played</h3>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/user/vilason">
    <img src="https://lastfm-recently-played.vercel.app/api?user=vilason&count=5&theme=tokyo-night" width="400" />
  </a>
</p>

---

## 📫 Connect With Me
- **GitHub:** [Sasha Sutton](https://github.com/sashsutton)  
- **LeetCode:** [Sasha on LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/u/sashasuttons3/)  
- **LinkedIn:** [Sasha Sutton](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sashasutton4)  
- **Email:** sashsuttons3@icloud.com  

---

⭐ **Thanks for reading — feel free to explore my projects or reach out!**

Commit message:

Enhance README with project details and badges
Updated project description and added badges for code and live demo.

README.md, after:


<h1 align="center">👋 Hi, I'm Sasha — AI & Backend Engineering</h1>
<p align="center">
  <b>Math & CS Student • Aspiring AI Engineer • Backend Developer • Creative Tech Explorer</b>
</p>

---

## 🧠 About Me  
I'm a Mathematics & Computer Science student focusing on **AI engineering**, especially:

- Machine learning & deep learning  
- NLP & transformer models  
- Vector databases & semantic search  
- Scalable backend systems  
- AI for audio (DSP, embeddings, generative models)

I love building systems that combine **strong backend architecture** with **machine learning intelligence**.  
My background as a **music producer & former sound engineer at Fabric (London)** inspires my interest in **AI x audio**.

---

## 🚀 AI & Engineering Focus  
- 🤖 Machine Learning (PyTorch, TensorFlow)  
- 🧠 Transformers, NLP & embeddings  
- 🔍 High-dimensional search & similarity  
- 📦 FastAPI ML microservices  
- 🧮 Linear algebra, optimization, probability  
- 🔊 Audio ML: classification, embeddings, DSP  
- 🛠️ MLOps (learning: Docker, pipelines, deployment)  

---

## 🧰 Tech Stack  

### **Languages**
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?logo=python&logoColor=white)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-F7DF1E?logo=javascript&logoColor=black)
![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-007396?logo=java&logoColor=white)

### **AI / ML**
![PyTorch](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-EE4C2C?logo=pytorch&logoColor=white)
![TensorFlow](https://img.shields.io/badge/TensorFlow-FF6F00?logo=tensorflow&logoColor=white)
![NumPy](https://img.shields.io/badge/NumPy-013243?logo=numpy&logoColor=white)
![Pandas](https://img.shields.io/badge/Pandas-150458?logo=pandas&logoColor=white)

### **Backend**
![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?logo=fastapi&logoColor=white)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?logo=node.js&logoColor=white)
![Express](https://img.shields.io/badge/Express-000000?logo=express&logoColor=white)

### **Databases & Tools**
![PostgreSQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-336791?logo=postgresql&logoColor=white)
![Supabase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Supabase-3ECF8E?logo=supabase&logoColor=white)
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-47A248?logo=mongodb&logoColor=white)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=white)

---
## 🚀 Featured Projects

### 🔍 **[Vector Search Engine (RAG)](https://github.com/sashsutton/vector-search-engine)**
> **Python • FastAPI • NumPy • Docker**
>
> A high-performance semantic search engine built from scratch. It uses **Cosine Similarity** and **Linear Algebra** to manage 384-dimensional vector embeddings in real-time, enabling context-aware search instead of just keyword matching.
>
> [![View Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/View_Code-GitHub-black?style=flat-square&logo=github)](https://github.com/sashsutton/vector-search-engine)
> [![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/🚀_Live_Demo-Online-success?style=flat-square)](https://vector-search-engine-frontend.vercel.app/)

<br>

### 🏃 **[Neural Vision 3D](https://github.com/sashsutton/neural-network-numbers?tab=readme-ov-file)**
> **Python • Numpy • React**
>
> An interactive 3D visualization of a Neural Network built from scratch, capable of recognising hand-drawn digits using the MNIST dataset.
>
> [![View Code](https://img.shields.io/badge/View_Code-GitHub-black?style=flat-square&logo=github)](https://github.com/sashsutton/neural-network-numbers?tab=readme-ov-file)
> [![Live Demo](https://img.shields.io/badge/🚀_Live_Demo-Online-success?style=flat-square)](https://neural-network-numbers.vercel.app/)

---

# 📊 GitHub Contributions

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-activity-graph.vercel.app/graph?username=sashsutton&theme=tokyo-night" />
</p>

---

# 🧠 AI Engineer Roadmap (My Path)

### **📌 Foundations (DONE / IN PROGRESS)**
- Python mastery  
- Linear algebra, probability, optimization  
- Data structures & algorithms  
- NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib  

### **📌 Machine Learning (NOW)**
- Regression, classification, clustering  
- Pipelines & preprocessing  
- Model evaluation & tuning  

### **📌 Deep Learning**
- MLPs  
- CNNs & RNNs  
- Training techniques & regularization  

### **📌 NLP & Embeddings**
- Tokenizers & vectorization  
- Transformer models  
- Semantic search & LLM basics  

### **📌 AI for Audio (SPECIALISATION)**
- Spectrograms  
- Audio embeddings  
- Genre/BPM classification  
- ML-driven mixing/mastering tools  

### **📌 Backend + MLOps**
- FastAPI model deployment  
- Dockerized pipelines  
- Model versioning  
- Monitoring & logging  
- Cloud deployment (learning)  

---
<h3 align="center">🎧 Recently Played</h3>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/user/vilason">
    <img src="https://lastfm-recently-played.vercel.app/api?user=vilason&count=5&theme=tokyo-night" width="400" />
  </a>
</p>

---

## 📫 Connect With Me
- **GitHub:** [Sasha Sutton](https://github.com/sashsutton)  
- **LeetCode:** [Sasha on LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/u/sashasuttons3/)  
- **LinkedIn:** [Sasha Sutton](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sashasutton4)  
- **Email:** sashsuttons3@icloud.com  

---

⭐ **Thanks for reading — feel free to explore my projects or reach out!**
